detective recapped here today i'm going
to explain a neo-noir crime film called
the girl with the dragon tattoo
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
wealthy businessman henrikh wanger
grimly opens his birthday present
a specimen of dried flowers pressed into
a frame he looks at it with morbid
curiosity
his grand-niece harriet wanger has been
dead for over 40 years
yeti still receives this routine
birthday present without fail
elsewhere journalist mikael blomkist is
faced with a career-ending dilemma
he has been charged with a libel suit by
businessman hans eric venerstrom after
accusing him of criminal activity
vanerstrom quickly disproved all of
mikael's accusations and proceeded to
destroy his career
costing him a handsome 600 000 swedish
croner in damages
after having quite possibly the worst
day of his life mikiel goes out for
coffee and smoke when he returns to the
magazine publishing company millennium
there he is greeted by erica berger his
married lover and business partner with
mikael's situation
erica is distraught and terribly
distressed elizabeth salander
a brilliant investigator and computer
hacker is contacted by one of henrikh
fanger's man
mr dirk froda he contracts her to do a
background check on mikael bloomfist
after the initial report dirk seeks
lisbeth to ask questions about mikael
and inquire more about his personal life
however lisbeth intentionally leaves it
out of the report
stating that she believes in leaving
some things private she even goes as far
as to make antagonizing
jokes on dirk's behalf when he pressed
on the matter after their bitter
exchange
she comes home to do a background check
on him in there she discovers that
venerstrom once worked for vanguard
industries
dirk's employer during christmas evening
mikhail is contacted by dirk froda
he introduces himself as henrik vanger's
attorney and tells him to come to
hadestad
for some common ground he adds that
henrich doesn't like venerstrom
either though mikael hesitates at first
because of his legal predicament he ends
up agreeing mikael leaves for hadestad a
couple of days later
he arrives there by train with dear
picking him up
mikael is immediately displeased with
the fierce cold and hater stod and tells
dear kilby on the 4 30 train to get home
that evening
mikhail is then taken to henrikh
wanger's mansion where he and henrik
officially meet
he wants to enlist mikael's help in
solving a family mystery that has been
haunting the wongers for over 40 years
the disappearance and presumed murder of
harriet wanger
henrik explains that on paper mikhail
will be writing his memoirs as his cover
as a primer henrik proceeds to explain
his family
he introduces harriet as his grandniece
and the only relative that he didn't
attest
harriet's grandfather and henrik's
brother was richard wanger a german
nationalist who served and died for the
second world war
richard's son and harriet's father is
gottfried wanger a salesman who helped
build wanger industries
he adds that a drunk gottfried drowned
in the ocean in 1965.
isabella harriet's mother became a
useless parent after her husband's death
leaving hendrick to take care of harriet
and her brother martin who now runs
modern day vanguard industries
henrik tells mikael that he believes
that someone in their family murdered
harriet and has been playing mind games
with him for over 40 years
after laying out his family tree henrik
recounts the day of harriet's
disappearance
it was september 24 1966 and they were
holding the family's annual board
meeting and dinner
at the same time there was a town parade
that harriet attended with her friends
she returned after two in the afternoon
and tried to henrik but he told her to
wait
at this time a road accident occurred on
the hedes.bridge exit
an oil truck toppled atop a van and
almost half the island went on to help
including the wanger family
after the rescue they slowly returned
home it was during their dinner that
henrik realized that his grandniece was
gone
mikael asks if harriet might have run
away but henrik believes she didn't
he then shows mikael the collection of
pressed flowers explaining that harriet
used to send them to him before she
disappeared
he continues to receive them even after
her disappearance leading him to believe
that harriet's killer is the culprit
though he initially decided to decline
the job mikiel ends up accepting when
henrik promises him dirt on venerstrom
liz beth continues to investigate
venerstrom one day
as lisbeth returns home she is shocked
to find her state-appointed guardian
holger palm grand suffering from a
stroke
she takes him to the hospital and
afterward she's designated a new
guardian named nils biermann
mikhail arrives once again at hayden
stott and moves into the small cabin
henrik had prepared for him
there he meets a cat that takes a liking
to him and in turn he decides to take
the cat in during his stay there
on his first morning in the viciously
cold cabin nikkel is awakened by the
caretaker gunner at the front door
henrik then gives mikael a rundown of
the family members living nearby
harold is his reckless brother in the
family's second world war german
nationalist
there's also harold's daughter cecilia
who lives away from harold and isn't on
speaking terms with him
cecilia's brother binger is mentioned
and henrik claims him to be as
unpleasant as his father
then there's isabella harriet's mother
and finally
martin harriet's brother later in his
cabin
mikhail starts preparing by putting up a
board with notes maps and pictures
he begins his investigation with the
officer who was assigned the case at the
time
officer morel he reads morel's report
and gathers all the details
the next day he goes to the officer's
home morel is now an old man
and he tells mikael that harriet was his
rebecca case
according to him every cop has an
unsolved case that haunts them forever
the namesake of the phrase came from an
officer named torstensen
his obsession with the unsolved case
surrounding a girl named rebecca spanned
the rest of his life until his death
mikhail shows morel a diary from harriet
but morel only shoves it back to him
saying he studied it several times
already mikhail talks about the list of
initials with numbers behind the diary
but they were just another dead end
back at hadestad mikhail meets martin
wanger for an interview
martin recounts that harriet's death
affected the family as well as their
company
it broke henrik's spirit and from there
things continued to decline
when asked if he was there the day
harriet disappeared martin says he
arrived after the accident on the bridge
with a 4 30 train
martin who is unaware of mikael's real
assignment encourages him to include
harriet and henrik's memoirs
the next day cecilia wanger pays mikael
a visit
cecilia behaves rudely toward mikael and
after he asked her what harriet was like
she replies that her sister anita knows
harriet better than she does
cecilia adds that anita now lives in
london and would probably not want to
see him
meanwhile liz beth is furious at her new
state appointed guardian
nils burma he manipulatively controls
her finances
using her previous criminal behavior to
keep her from fighting back
one day lisbeth gets mugged by a random
criminal
she fights back and retrieves her bag
but it ends with her computer breaking
this event leads to liz beth requesting
money from nils to purchase a
replacement
nils takes advantage of this situation
to extort obscene favors from her by
threatening to have her
institutionalized if she doesn't comply
afterward lisbeth leaves nils's office
with the money
mikael arrives in london to find a need
of anger harriet's cousin
and the two of them go out to a cafe for
an interview anita claims that she's
distanced herself from her family for
many years already and that she has a
poor recollection of those long past
events
but she tells him that harriet was a
messed up and unhappy girl
who withdrew to religion as her own
father might have abused her
and if harriet survived anita suspects
that she must have run away
one evening lisbeth has run out of money
for food and visits nils in his
apartment
thinking it would just be another favor
liz beth half-heartedly follows him to
his room
this is when nils cuffs liz beth to his
bed so he can very roughly abuse her
meanwhile mikael starts looking over the
bible since anita mentioned harriet to
be religious
later erica stops by hadestad island for
a visit
here henrik and martin offer financial
help to the millennium
when erica asks why henrik would do that
henrik replies
the enemies of my friends are my enemies
erica accepts the offer
much to mikkel's concern elizabeth
salander is out for revenge she seeks
out nils and catches him by surprise
with a taser
when nils wakes up he is gagged and
bound to the floor
lisbeth proceeds to torture and
blackmail him with the camera she
planted in her bag the night he abused
her
with the video she coerces nils into
giving her control of her money
she then uses a painful tattoo needle to
succinctly write on nils's chest that
he's a pig who forces himself on women
completely blocking his intimate life
one day
mikhail makes a break in the case when
he observes one of the parade
photos showing harriet surprised and
frightened by something
bit by bit he starts to put the pieces
together
mikhail finds a bible verse about a dove
offering and the method of killing the
dove is similar to how the girl from the
rebecca case
rebecca jacobson die miguel also notes
that the initials rj on harriet's diary
belongs to her
with these in mind mikael realizes that
the numbers listed next to the names are
bible verses
later henrik is rushed to the hospital
because of a medical emergency
his supervision of mikael is put in
question so he speaks with dirk
regarding his payment and asks who he'll
be reporting to if henrik dies
miguel proceeds to ask for a research
assistant to which dirk recommends
elizabeth salander
after much effort mikhail tracks down
lisbeth in her apartment and brings
breakfast with him to meet her
considering her recent experiences with
men lisbeth is hesitant and wary of
mikhail at first
however miguel gains her trust when he
mentions he needs her help to catch a
killer of women
with her on board mikhail presents
everything he has so far on the harriet
case
lisbeth boots a program on her computer
and proceeds to work on the list of
initials at the back of harriet's diary
lisbeth arrives at mikael's cabin after
a day of investigating in haitistad
lisbeth reports that all five initials
belong to the five women who were all
abused and killed by a serial murderer
lisbeth even goes on to find more
victims with one of them being lena
anderson
a student mikhail stops lisbeth to ask
her what the serial killer has to do
with harriet
and lisbeth tells him that harry was
looking for him too
another observation that lisbeth makes
is that all the victims had biblical
jewish names
mikhail informs her that there's more
than one german nationalist in the
wanger family implying that the killer
could be one of the vongers
the next morning mikhail is surprised to
see lisbeth using his encrypted laptop
lisbeth tells miguel she's looking over
his notes and liz beth notices something
in one of the parade photos a woman is
taking a photograph during the time
harriet got startled by what she saw on
the other side of the street
mikhail then goes out of the cabin for a
smoke but he ends up terribly shocked to
see his cat be headed and mutilated
serving as a message to mikael that he
should stop and leave despite the threat
mikael spends his day interviewing the
locals in search of the woman with the
camera
after a few hours of asking around he
finally arrives at the woman's house
she politely welcomes him and presents
him with her old photographs
mikhail finds one particular photo of an
obscured young man on the other side of
the street
and he asks the woman if he can make a
copy of it afterward
mikhail decides to visit the place where
gottfried wanger died
he arrives at the old house beside the
dock before he knows it
he is suddenly shot by an unseen
assailant from afar the bullet almost
hits him
praising him on the forehead meanwhile
liz beth is setting up security cameras
in the cabin
just as she finished mikael comes in
bloody and frightened
liz beth takes care of mikael's head
wound and from there she makes a move on
him
the two end up sleeping together despite
mikael's initial hesitation
the next day mikel and liz beth visit
deark and martin to request access to
wenger industries records
after some arguments between dierk and
martin dirk lets his hesitation go and
grants them access
mikael then tasks lisbeth with looking
for any connections between the wanger
family and the towns where the women
were killed
mikhail adds that he also wants
everything on dirk froda who he suspects
because of his guarded reaction to
having the records accessed
lisbeth goes down to the company and
begins to search their records
there she draws a possible connection
between the victims and gottfried
except for lena anderson who was killed
when gottfried was already dead
meanwhile mikael interviews harold who
he discovered took several photographs
the day that harriet died
during their interview mikhail found one
such photo that contained a man who was
similar to the one that had harriet
scared in the parade photo
harold identifies him as martin back at
the cabin mikel rechecks his records and
finds that lena anderson and martin were
in the same school the year she died
filled with suspicion and a desire for
answers niko goes to search martin in
his house
he takes one of the knives in the
kitchen and proceeds to go through the
house
but he finds no one there just then
martin drives up in his car
causing mikael to panic and leave in a
hurry mikael almost escapes
but martin spots him falling over in the
grass just outside his house
martin then persuades mikael to come
over inside for a drink
not wanting to offend martin mikhail
complies there martin questions mikael
on what he knows so far
with tensions high martin realizes that
one of his knives in the kitchen is
missing
so he brings out a gun and points it at
mikael he ushers mikael to a hidden
underground room where martin activates
a sleeping gas to knock him out
when mikhail wakes up he finds his neck
rung up and hung onto the ceiling
believing that mikael's done for martin
finally admits that he's the serial
killer
still he gets shaken up when miko
mentions harriet he accuses martin of
killing her
but martin only appears confused when he
was told that
before martin could begin torturing
mikael lizbeth comes in and bashes
martin's jaw with a golf club martin
makes a run for it and mikael tells
lisbeth martin left a gun behind
with martin driving away in his car
lisbeth gives chase to him using her
motorcycle
she gains on martin and spooks him
enough to tip his car off balance
martin's car crashes trapping him inside
before lisbeth could finish him off
the car explodes back at the cabin liz
beth and mikael regroup to talk about
the wenger siblings
after realizing that martin didn't kill
harriet mikkel suggests that harriet
might have survived and the only person
who'd know where she is would be anita
the two of them then go to london at
first mikhail and lisbeth try spying on
anita's laptop and cell phone activity
to see if she's speaking with harriet
but later
mikhail realizes one last possibility
mikil goes to face anita
he comes up to her and calls her by her
real name harriet
finally harriet gives up the act and
tells mikael everything
harriet's father began forcing himself
on her when she was just 14.
after she had killed him her brother
continued abusing her like their father
did
instead because of that anita helped her
escape
she hid on the island until the search
for her just began and left on the
bridge when everyone else was busy
looking elsewhere back at hadestad
a recovering henrik gives mikael his
payment and the dirt he has on
venerstrom
that day harriet and henrik share an
emotional reunion
mikhail is later disappointed when the
only thing henrik offered was venerstrom
being fired for money embezzlement
in his youth while working for wanger
industries since that isn't enough to
damage him
this motivates lisbeth to reveal that
she had hacked venerstrom's accounts
and she gives mikael evidence of
venerstrom's crimes
he then uses this to publish a brutal
editorial ruining venerstrom and
bringing mikael to national prominence
a disguise lisbeth travels to
switzerland and removes 2 billion euros
from venerstrum's secret accounts
as for venerstrum he is later murdered
in an apparent gangland shooting
on her way to give her new friend mike a
christmas present liz beth sees mikael
with his lover erica
disappointed she throws away the gift
and rides away on her motorcycle
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching